code-of-conduct.md, before:

# Contributor Covenant Code of Conduct

## Our Pledge

In the interest of fostering an open and welcoming environment, we as
contributors and maintainers pledge to make participation in our project and
our community a harassment-free experience for everyone, regardless of age, body
size, disability, ethnicity, sex characteristics, gender identity and expression,
level of experience, education, socio-economic status, nationality, personal
appearance, race, religion, or sexual identity and orientation.

## Our Standards

Examples of behavior that contributes to creating a positive environment
include:

* Using welcoming and inclusive language
* Being respectful of differing viewpoints and experiences
* Gracefully accepting constructive criticism
* Focusing on what is best for the community
* Showing empathy towards other community members

Examples of unacceptable behavior by participants include:

* The use of sexualized language or imagery and unwelcome sexual attention or
  advances
* Trolling, insulting/derogatory comments, and personal or political attacks
* Public or private harassment
* Publishing others' private information, such as a physical or electronic
  address, without explicit permission
* Other conduct which could reasonably be considered inappropriate in a
  professional setting

## Our Responsibilities

Project maintainers are responsible for clarifying the standards of acceptable
behavior and are expected to take appropriate and fair corrective action in
response to any instances of unacceptable behavior.

Project maintainers have the right and responsibility to remove, edit, or
reject comments, commits, code, wiki edits, issues, and other contributions
that are not aligned to this Code of Conduct, or to ban temporarily or
permanently any contributor for other behaviors that they deem inappropriate,
threatening, offensive, or harmful.

## Scope

This Code of Conduct applies within all project spaces, and it also applies when
an individual is representing the project or its community in public spaces.
Examples of representing a project or community include using an official
project e-mail address, posting via an official social media account, or acting
as an appointed representative at an online or offline event. Representation of
a project may be further defined and clarified by project maintainers.

## Enforcement

Instances of abusive, harassing, or otherwise unacceptable behavior may be
reported by contacting the project team at [INSERT EMAIL ADDRESS]. All
complaints will be reviewed and investigated and will result in a response that
is deemed necessary and appropriate to the circumstances. The project team is
obligated to maintain confidentiality with regard to the reporter of an incident.
Further details of specific enforcement policies may be posted separately.

Project maintainers who do not follow or enforce the Code of Conduct in good
faith may face temporary or permanent repercussions as determined by other
members of the project's leadership.

## Attribution

This Code of Conduct is adapted from the [Contributor Covenant][homepage], version 1.4,
available at https://www.contributor-covenant.org/version/1/4/code-of-conduct.html

[homepage]: https://www.contributor-covenant.org

For answers to common questions about this code of conduct, see
https://www.contributor-covenant.org/faq

Commit message:

Xen Project Code of Conduct
Specific changes to the baseline:
* Replace list of positive behaviors with link to separate process
* Replace maintainers with project leadership
  (except in our pledge where maintainers is more appropriate)
* Add 'of all sub-projects' to clarify scope of CoC
* Rename Enforcement
* Replace "project team" with "Conduct Team members"
* Add e-mail alias
* Add section on contacting individual Conduct Team members
* Add section on Conduct Team members

Signed-off-by: Lars Kurth <lars.kurth@citrix.com>
Message-Id: <469326764ec7da37796adf429d61173207798816.1569525222.git.lars.kurth@citrix.com>

code-of-conduct.md, after:

# Xen Project Code of Conduct

## Our Pledge

In the interest of fostering an open and welcoming environment, we as
contributors and maintainers pledge to make participation in our project and
our community a harassment-free experience for everyone, regardless of age, body
size, disability, ethnicity, sex characteristics, gender identity and expression,
level of experience, education, socio-economic status, nationality, personal
appearance, race, religion, or sexual identity and orientation.

## Our Standards

We believe that a Code of Conduct can help create a harassment-free environment,
but is not sufficient to create a welcoming environment on its own: guidance on
creating a welcoming environment, how to communicate in an effective and friendly
way, etc. can be found [here](communication-guide.md).

Examples of unacceptable behavior by participants include:

* The use of sexualized language or imagery and unwelcome sexual attention or
  advances
* Trolling, insulting/derogatory comments, and personal or political attacks
* Public or private harassment
* Publishing others' private information, such as a physical or electronic
  address, without explicit permission
* Other conduct which could reasonably be considered inappropriate in a
  professional setting

## Our Responsibilities

Project leadership team members are responsible for clarifying the standards of acceptable
behavior and are expected to take appropriate and fair corrective action in
response to any instances of unacceptable behavior.

Project leadership team members have the right and responsibility to remove, edit, or
reject comments, commits, code, wiki edits, issues, and other contributions
that are not aligned to this Code of Conduct, or to ban temporarily or
permanently any contributor for other behaviors that they deem inappropriate,
threatening, offensive, or harmful.

## Scope

This Code of Conduct applies within all project spaces of all sub-projects, and it also applies when
an individual is representing the project or its community in public spaces.
Examples of representing a project or community include using an official
project e-mail address, posting via an official social media account, or acting
as an appointed representative at an online or offline event. Representation of
a project may be further defined and clarified by the project leadership.

## What to do if you witness or are subject to unacceptable behavior

Instances of abusive, harassing, or otherwise unacceptable behavior may be
reported by contacting Conduct Team members at conduct@xenproject.org. All
complaints will be reviewed and investigated and will result in a response that
is deemed necessary and appropriate to the circumstances. Conduct Team members are
obligated to maintain confidentiality with regard to the reporter of an incident.
Further details of specific enforcement policies may be posted separately.

If you have concerns about any of the members of the conduct@ alias,
you are welcome to contact precisely the Conduct Team member(s) of
your choice.

Project leadership team members who do not follow or enforce the Code of Conduct in good
faith may face temporary or permanent repercussions as determined by other
members of the project's leadership.

## Conduct Team members
Conduct Team members are project leadership team members from any
sub-project. The current list of Conduct Team members is:
* Lars Kurth <lars dot kurth at xenproject dot org>
* George Dunlap <george dot dunlap at citrix dot com>
* Ian Jackson <ian dot jackson at citrix dot com>

Conduct Team members are changed by proposing a change to this document,
posted on all sub-project lists, followed by a formal global vote as outlined
[here]: https://xenproject.org/developers/governance/#project-decisions

## Attribution

This Code of Conduct is adapted from the [Contributor Covenant][homepage], version 1.4,
available at https://www.contributor-covenant.org/version/1/4/code-of-conduct.html

[homepage]: https://www.contributor-covenant.org

For answers to common questions about this code of conduct, see
https://www.contributor-covenant.org/faq
